you stepped on me sorry I'm thinking
about checking in the PO now that we
need in the wild lands of South Africa
the daily struggle to survive has led
the animals that live here to evolve and
adapt many different traits even if
these traits do seem a little bit
sneaking on the African plains survival
is uncertain the struggle to find enough
food avoid predation and despite the
elements succeed is testing even for the
most resilient of species from allusions
to camouflage to being downright
deceitful the animals in South Africa
have found many ways in which to survive
in the savannas the black-backed jackal
these cunning and Bold canines are
amongst the most adaptable species in
Africa with their reddish brown fur and
distinguished black stripe they are
perfectly camouflaged giving them the
ability to disappear with ease in their
surroundings considered to be one of the
oldest dog species they are expert
scavengers and are known to stalk lions
and hyenas sneaking in to take morsels
from a kill both species could easily
kill a black back jackal but this
doesn't deter the daring canine as they
fearlessly take every opportunity for a
meal but they are also active hunters
being able to take down antelope species
twice their size they're coming nature
means they're always on the lookout for
a feeding opportunity looking for any
weakness in potential prey even if
sometimes it doesn't quite work out but
these crafty canines are unquestionably
one of the sneakiest animals of the
savannas evidently animals have evolved
to take chances in capitalize on
opportunities created by others however
there is also risk-taking within the
same species particularly when dealing
with the right to breathe the Chacma
baboon an old world monkey widespread
across South Africa with strict
dominance hierarchies that alpha
controls his group having the right to
breathe but young males instinctively
long to sigh of their own offspring so
they wait until the Alpha is out of
sight then sneak in to mate with his
females but this can count the cost
troops can be hundred strong and when
females are ready to breed the Alpha has
been known to exhibit violent behaviour
towards the females in order to secure
their loyalty this can be repeated many
times with their alpha aiming to
maximize his females ensuring that they
do not sneak we mate with other males
when there is a strong alpha in the
troop
only the sneakiest young males get a
chance to pass on their genes
rich in biodiversity the species found
in South Africa are some of the most
remarkable in the world from having
armored shells to protect themselves
from rotation to use in tails as a
follow-me sign and communicating by
ground tapping the science behind the
biology and behaviors of the animals
found in the savannas has been studied
for many years but despite years of
study
some species appearance has still
baffled science and to this day remains
a mystery the zebra they're striking
black and white stripes have intrigued
biologists for millennia of the 3
species found on the continent all have
this impressive fur coloration but why
despite living in the African Sun as
zebras skin is actually dark in color
and one theory is that when their black
stripes become hotter the color
variation with white creates small
cooling air vortexes and very new
science has revealed a hair-raising
theory suggesting that the cooling
mechanism may be more to do with what
the zebra does with their stripes not
the color alone previously unrecorded it
was found that zebras have the ability
to raise their hairs on their black
stripes whilst their white stripes stay
flat proposing this could transfer heat
from their skin now as well as keeping
cooler separate stripes of thought to
help them become camouflage in the long
grass and when they run it was once
thought that their stripes were meant to
confuse predators this motion effect
created by a group of zebras is what
gives the herd its other name a dazzle
the motion dazzle created when zebras
run could weaken a predators have been
to target a single animal in the herd
and therefore increase their chance of
survival simply through an optical
illusion but their stripes don't only
serve in confusing large predators they
also confuse the small it was found that
blood sucking flies seem to also be
dazzled by the zebra stripes from a
distance the stripes merged as one color
but as the flies got closer the sudden
reveal of their unusual patterns seemed
to affect the fly's ability to land and
therefore the Zebras were bitten less
striking visuals in nature almost always
serve some sort of crucial function even
if it is hidden in plain sight and
despite standing out to the naked eye
zebras are the masters of trickery in
the savannas so a zebra stripes could
have evolved for many different reasons
if not all of them but either way
they're magnificent animals
next time on wild land South Africa we
take a look at some of the strongest
animals that live on the savannas some
through sheer power but also in survival
as we tell the story of the first Rhino
ever to survive poaching and subscribe
to BBC Earth for more fascinating
wildlife videos from around the world
[Music]
[Applause]